.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines
.\" Nathan Fontenot <nfont@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH BOOTLIST 8 "May 2013" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
bootlist - update and view the bootlist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/bootlist \-m \fR{\fBnormal\fR|\fBservice\fR|\fBboth\fR}\fB -o\fR|\fB-r\fR
\fB/usr/sbin/bootlist \-m \fR{\fBnormal\fR|\fBservice\fR|\fBboth\fR} [\fB-o\fR|\fB-r\fR] \fB-f \fIfile
\fB/usr/sbin/bootlist \-m \fR{\fBnormal\fR|\fBservice\fR|\fBboth\fR} [\fB-o\fR|\fB-r\fR] <\fIdev_list\fR>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The bootlist command allows users to view and update the system bootlist
stored in NVRAM for PowerPC-64 machines. To update the list of boot devices
one or more boot devices can be specified directly or read from a file. This
list of devices may be specified as either logical device names or the
full Open Firmware device path. The bootlist command uses the \fIofpathanme\fR
script to convert between logical device names and Open Firmware device
paths, and the \fInvram\fR command to update the stored boot list.

If a list of devices is not specified, or the -o or -r options are specified,
the current boot list stored in nvram is displayed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-m normal\fR|\fBservice\fR|\fBboth
Required; specify whether the normal or service mode boot list should be
viewed/updated.  Specifying "both" will update the normal and service mode
boot lists.
.TP
\fB\-o
Display the current boot list entries as logical device names.
.TP
\fB\-r
Display the current boot list entries as Open Firmware device path names
(default).
.TP
\fB\-f \fIfile
Read the bootlist device names from \fIfile\fR, one entry per line.
.TP
\fIdev_list
A space-separated list of devices, specified as logical device names or OF
device path names, depending on whether the \fB-o\fR or \fB-r\fR option is
specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
View the normal mode boot list as logical device names:

    /usr/sbin/bootlist -o -m normal

Update the service mode boot list:

    /usr/sbin/bootlist -o -m service /dev/sda3 /dev/cdrom
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nathan Fontenot
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ofpathname (8),
.BR nvram (8)
