.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2022 International Business Machines
.\"
.TH DRMGR-HOOKS 8 "May 24, 2022" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
drmgr\-hooks \- Hooks run by drmgr
.SH DESCRIPTION
When
.B drmgr
is run to perform PowerVM Dynamic Logical Partitioning (DLPAR) operations,
a set of hooks may be triggered to validate, and, or be aware of the incoming operation.
.P
Not all the DLPAR operations are providing hook calls.
Currently only the LPAR Migration operation (LPM) is concerned.
.P
The hooks are executable files stored in a directory named "DRC TYPE" in
.IR /etc/drmgr.d/ .
For instance, hooks run when a LPAR migration is done are stored in
.IR /etc/drmgr.d/pmig .
.P
Hook files can be symbolic links to executable files. All the hooks can be stored in
.IR /etc/drmgr.d
and linked into multiple directories to provide multiple DRC type's hooks.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.P
Hooks are called without any arguments but with  at least these 2 environment variable set:
.TP
.BI "DRC_TYPE"
The Dynamic reconfiguration connector type to act upon from the following list:
.BR pmig ", " pci ", " cpu ", " mem ", " port ", " slot ", " phb "."
.TP
.BI "PHASE"
The phase of the operation from the following list:
.BR check ", " undocheck ", " pre ", " post "."
.SH LPAR MIGRATION
.P
When a LPAR migration is initiated the
.B check
phase is first triggered. Hooks called at check phase may returned a non zero value to prevent the migration operation to happen.
The error messages displayed in
.BR STDOUT " or " STDERR
would be reported to the end user through the HMC.
.P
If the
.B check
phase has failed, because at least one hook has returned a non null value, the
.B undocheck
phase is launched. Return value for the
.B
undocheck
phase is ignored.
.P
If the
.B check
phase succeeded, the
.BR pre " and later " post
phases are triggered. Returned values for these 2 phases are ignored, and the
.B post
phase is triggered even if the LPM operation has failed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P
The drmgr's hooks are called while holding the DLPAR lock, so any other
DLPAR operation initiated from a hook is expected to fail.
.P
The hooks standard input
.B STDIN
is redirected to
.I /dev/null
while STDOUT and STDERR are redirected to pipes.
The outputs done in these pipes are reported to the end user when a hook has returned an error value and that error value is not ignored (e.g in the LPM, the
.B check
phase but not the
.BR pre "or " post
phase)
.P
Except the variables specified in the ARGUMENTS section, all the environment variables are unset before calling the hook.
.SH FILES
.IR /etc/drmgr.d/pmig/
.SH AUTHOR
Laurent Dufour <ldufour@linux.ibm.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR drmgr (8)
