.\" Copyright (c) 2005 International Business Machines.
.\" Common Public License Version 1.0 (see COPYRIGHT)
.\"
.\" Author(s)
.\"	Ryan S. Arnold <rsa@us.ibm.com>
.\"		Original version: January 14, 2005.
.\"
.Dd January 18, 2005
.Os LINUX
.Dt HVCSADMIN 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm hvcsadmin
.Nd hypervisor virtual console server administration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Fl all Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl close Ar hvcs<index> Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl console Ar partition Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl help
.Pp
.Nm Fl node Ar hvcs<index> Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl rescan Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl status Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Pp
.Nm Fl version
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is the IBM hypervisor virtual console server
.Pq \fBhvcs\fR
administration utility.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl all
Close all open vty-server adapter connections.
.Pp
Inclusion of a single
.Sq Fl noisy
flag will direct the utility to output a list of all the adapters that were
closed.
.It Fl close Ar hvcs<index>
Close the vty-server adapter connection that maps to the hvcs device node
specified in the option.
.Pp
By default this operation only exhibits output on error.  It is silent on
success and silent if the adapter is already closed.  When accompanied by a
.Sq Fl noisy
flag this option will output the device to adapter mapping and a message
indicating that the adapter has been closed.
.It Fl console Ar partition
Which /dev/hvcs<index> node provides the console for the option specified
partition?  This option takes a partition number and returns a status string
which contains the device node that maps to the target partition's slot zero
vty-server adapter [A console adapter is always in slot zero].
.Pp
Inclusion of a single
.Sq Fl noisy
flag does not change the default output of this option.
.It Fl help
Output the utility help text.
.It Fl node Ar hvcs<index>
Which vty-server adapter is mapped to the option specified /dev/hvcs<index>
node?  This option takes a device node and returns a status string which
contains the vty-server adapter mapped to that node.
.Pp
Inclusion of a single
.Sq Fl noisy
flag does not change the default output of this option.
.It Fl noisy
This directive is optional.  Without a
.Sq Fl noisy
directive the hvcsadmin utility is in \fBsilent\fR mode by default (except in
the case of errors and output requests).  The output verbosity of the utility
is managed by stacking
.Sq Fl noisy
directives.  A single instance of
.Sq Fl noisy
indicates that the utility should output in \fBstatus\fR mode.  A second
instance of
.Sq Fl noisy
indicates that the utility should output in \fBverbose\fR mode.  Verbose mode
is generally used for script tracing and won't be used by a casual user unless
problems arise.
.It Fl rescan
Direct the hvcs driver to rescan partner information for all vty-server
adapters it manages.  This may expose additional adapters and partners.
.It Fl status
Outputs a table with each row containing a vty-server, adapter, its
/dev/hvcs<index> device node mapping, and the adapter connection status.
"vterm_state:0" means it is free/disconnected and "vterm_state:0" means the
vty-server is connected to its vty partner adapter.
.Pp
An example of \fBhvcsadmin -status\fR output follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvty-server@30000003 partition:1 slot:2 /dev/hvcs0 vterm-state:0
vty-server@30000004 partition:15 slot:0 /dev/hvcs1 vterm-state:0\fR
.Ed
.Pp
When this option is accompanied by a
.Sq Fl noisy
flag it will output a line for each hvcs device node which doesn't have a
current vty-server adapter mapping as well as the status demonstrated above.
.It Fl version
Out the hvcsadmin script's version number.
.El
.Sh AUTHOR(S)
.An Ryan S. Arnold Aq rsa@us.ibm.com

