.\" Copyright (c) 2005 International Business Machines.
.\" Common Public License Version 1.0 (see COPYRIGHT)
.\"
.\" Author(s)
.\"     Ryan S. Arnold <rsa@us.ibm.com>
.\"         Original version: January 14, 2005.
.\"
.Dd January 14, 2005
.Os LINUX
.Dt IBMVSCSIS.CONF 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm ibmvscsis.conf
.Nd virtual SCSI server configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is the manual page for \fBibmvscsis.conf\fR which is the IBM
virtual SCSI server configuration file.  This file denotes the SCSI
bus and SCSI target configurations for each vscsis host adapter that
the IBM virtual SCSI server manages.  This configuration is read by
the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility which interacts with the \fBibmvscsis\fR
driver to create, configure, active, and deactivate properly configured
targets.
.Pp
This manual page serves as documentation on the configuration options
supported by the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility and how they must be
presented in the \fBibmvscsis.conf\fR configuration file to exhibit
well-formed-ness.
.Sh FILES
The configuration file should be located in the following location on the file
system:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \fI/etc/ibmvscsis.conf\fR
.El
.Pp
If this file doesn't exist, it should be created manually and contain entries
for every vscsis adapter exposed by firmware to the \fBibmvscsis\fR driver.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The \fBibmvscsis.conf\fR configuration file is built upon
\fBadapter:bus:target\fR headers which describe SCSI target entries and a
corresponding entry body built of elements.  These elements denote the
entry validity state, the entry activity state, the entry type, the
device path and an optional loop file path.
.Pp
.Ss ENTRY HEADER
The following is an example of a config file entry header:\fB
.Bd -literal
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
.Ed
.Pp
\fRThis header is made up of the ibmvscsis identifier followed by a hexadecimal
adapter number.  Following the adapter number is a bus and target number.
.Pp
The adapter number must correspond to a vscsis adapter found at
.Pa /sys/bus/vio/drivers/ibmvscsis
in sysfs.  To verify that the adapter number is indeed a vscsis adapter the
string,
.Sq \fBv-scsi-host\fR
will appear under the \fBname\fR attribute in the adapter entry.
.Pp
The bus and target numbers that appear in entry headers define the bus and
targets that the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility will create when the vscsi server
is configured.  Each header entry defines the configuration settings for a
single target.
.Pp
If the adapter specified in the configuration file doesn't exist in sysfs when
the vscsi server is configured all of the elements in the entry body will be
ignored.
.Ss VALIDITY STATES
A SCSI target entry can be configured to demonstrate one of two possible
visibility states.  It can be either a valid entry or a placeholder entry. A
placeholder entry contains the
.Sq \fBnone\fR
element as the only element in the entry body as the following example
demonstrates: \fB
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		none
.Ed
.Pp
\fRA valid entry contains at least the \fBdevice_path\fR
element.  Any entry which doesn't contain a \fBdevice_path\fR element is
considered invalid and is ignored when the vscsi server is configured.  A
minimally configured valid entry example follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	\fBibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd1"\fR
.Ed
.Pp
The \fBdevice_path\fR element in this example indicates that the vscsi server
is providing partition
.Sq sdd1
as the block device managed by said target.
.Ss DEFAULT ASSUMPTIONS
The \fBvscsisadmin\fR script assumes two default settings which are
automatically configured in lieu of omitted elements.
.Pp
The first is that all targets are activated by default unless an
"\fBinactive\fR" element indicates otherwise.  Please reference the
\fBACTIVITY STATE\fR sub section for further details on the activity state
default and the method to override it.
.Pp
The second default assumption is that the target device \fBtype\fR is a
\fBblock\fR device.  Excluding the "\fBtype\fR" element from the entry is
tantamount to declaring it a block device as the following example indicates:
.Bd -literal
	\fBibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdb1"
		#defaults to type="b"\fR
.Ed
.Pp
It is strongly recommended that \fBtype="b"\fR element be included in the
entry body anyway, for clarity as the following example shows:
.Bd -literal
	\fBibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdb1"
		type="b"\fR
.Ed
.Pp
In the future when other device types are supported the type element will
indicate which type to set for each target.
.Ss ACTIVITY STATES
An entry can be either \fBactive\fR or \fBinactive\fR.  The activity state
dictates whether the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility activates the target once it
has been configured.  By default every entry is in the \fBactive\fR state.  In
order to tell the vscsisadmin script to configure the target but \fBnot\fR
activate it the
.Sq \fBinactive\fR
element must be included in the entry body as indicated by the following example:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	\fBibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdb1"
		type="b"
		inactive\fR
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Sq \fBinactive\fR
element can be placed anywhere within the entry body, though placing it as the
last element is customary.
.Ss LOOP DEVICE CONFIGURATION
In order to direct the vscsi server to use a flat file as a SCSI target the
file must be set up as a loop file and a special device called a loop
device must be mapped by the file system as the device point attachment for the loop file.
The \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility can create the loop file-to-device mapping automatically if
the configuration file entry contains the \fBloop_file\fR element.  The
following example demonstrates the required elements where
.Sq vdisk
is a large flat file created especially for this purpose:
.Pp
.Bd -literal

	\fBibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target1
		loop_file="var/vscsis/vdisk/"
		device_path="/dev/loop1"
		type="b"\fR
.Ed
.Pp
The \fBloop_file\fR element may be placed anywhere in the entry though it is
customary to place it preceding the \fBdevice_path\fR element.  When the vscsi
server is stopped the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility will automatically detach any
loop file-to-device mappings which match a target's \fBdevice_path\fR element.
.Pp
The \fBvscsisadmin\fR script will check for the loop file on the file system
before it attempts to configure target.  If the loop file doesn't exist the
target entry is ignored and the target will remain unconfigured.
.Ss ELEMENT ORDERING
Configuration elements may be placed in any order in the entry body though
there are customary places for certain elements that facilitate visual clarity.
.Ss ENTRY ORDERING
The \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility should be smart enough to create the proper
\fBibmvscsis\fR configuration regardless of the order that the entries appear
in the configuration file.  It is still recommended that entries follow a
least-to-greatest pattern.
.Pp
Since each entry represents a target under a bus and adapter, targets are
always listed in ascending order under their own bus.  Each successive bus
(and its target entries) should be listed in ascending order under its
adapter.  Finally each successive adapter (and its bus:target entries) should
be listed in ascending order.  The following ordering, sans entry elements,
demonstrates the ordering criteria.
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	\fB#same adapter, targets on the same bus
	ibmvscsis:30000003:bus0:target0
	ibmvscsis:30000003:bus0:target1
	ibmvscsis:30000003:bus0:target2

	#same adapter as previous, each target on a different bus
	ibmvscsis:30000003:bus1:target0
	ibmvscsis:30000003:bus2:target0

	#new adapter, each target on the same bus.
	ibmvscsis:30000004:bus0:target1
	ibmvscsis:30000004:bus0:target2

	#new adapter and each target on a different bus
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus1:target0
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus2:target0\fR
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
An example, well-formed
.Cd /etc/ibmvscsis.conf
configuration follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	\fBibmvscsis:30000003:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd1"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:30000004:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd2"
		#you can exclude the 'type="b"' as well
	ibmvscsis:30000005:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd3"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:30000006:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd5"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:30000006:bus0:target1
		device_path="/dev/sdd6"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:30000007:bus0:target0
		none
	ibmvscsis:30000008:bus0:target0
		device_path="/dev/sdd7"
		type="b"
		inactive
	ibmvscsis:30000008:bus1:target0
		loop_file="/var/vscsi/vdisk1"
		device_path="/dev/loop0"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:30000009:bus0:target0
		none
	ibmvscsis:3000000a:bus0:target0
		loop_file="/var/vscsi/vdisk2"
		device_path="/dev/loop1"
		type="b"
		inactive
	ibmvscsis:3000000b:bus0:target0
		loop_file="/var/vscsi/vdisk3"
		device_path="/dev/loop2"
		type="b"
	ibmvscsis:3000000c:bus0:target0
		loop_file="/var/vscsi/vdisk4"
		device_path="/dev/loop3"
		type="b"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ibmvscsis.sh 8 ,
.Xr vscsisadmin 8
.Sh AUTHOR(S)
.An Ryan S. Arnold Aq rsa@us.ibm.com
