.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 International Business Machines
.\" Brian King <brking@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH LSSLOT 8 "December 2011" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
lsslot \- display hot plug capable slots and resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lsslot [-c | -a | -b | -p | -o | -s | -F | -d | -w]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B lsslot
command can be used to display hot plug capable I/O slots, CPUs and caches.
Please note that this command does not display all I/O slots, only slots
which are physically capable of hot plug. Slots which are capable of DLPAR
but not hot plug capable will not be listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c <connector type>
Display the slots of the specified connector type.  The valid
connector types are "pci" for hotplug PCI slots, "slot" for
logical slots, "phb" for PHB's, "port" for LHEA ports, "mem"
for memory, and "cpu" for cpu's. The default is "slot" if
no -c option is specified.
.TP
.B \-a
Display available slots, valid for "pci" slots only.
.TP
.B \-b
Display cpu's and caches, valid for "cpu" only.
.TP
.B \-o
Display occupied slots, valid for "pci" slots only.
.TP
.B \-p
Display caches, valid for "cpu" slots only.
.TP
.B \-s [<slot> | <drc index>]
Display characteristics of the specified slot or the LMB with the specified
drc index.
.TP
.B \-F <delimiter>
Specified a single character to delimit the output.  The
heading is not displayed and the columns are delimited by the
specified character.
.TP
.B \-d <detail level>
Enable debugging output. When displaying memory information this flag will
also enable printing information about LMBs not currently owned by the system.
.TP
.B \-w <timeout>
Specify a timeout when attempting to acquire locks.
.SH AUTHOR
Brian King <brking@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
