.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 - 2004 International Business Machines
.\"
.TH NVRAM 8 "May 2004" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
nvram \- format data stored in non-volatile RAM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/nvram
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nvram
is used to print and modify data stored in the non-volatile RAM (NVRAM)
on a PowerPC-64 system.  NVRAM on these systems is partitioned into data
sections that each have their own format.  The print options to this
command selects what to print and how to format it.

.P
The
.I nvram 
utility can also be used to update the data in certain NVRAM partitions of
PowerPC-64 systems.
.I Nvram
can update the value of a name/value pair for NVRAM partitions formatted
as a set of name=value pairs.  On many systems, the following NVRAM
partitions contain data formatted as name=value pairs: common, of-config,
and ibm,setupcfg.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--print-config\fR[=\fIvar\fR]
print value of a config variable, or print all variables in the specified
(or all) partitions.
.TP
\fB\--update-config \fIname\fR=\fIvalue
update the config variable in the specified partition; the -p option
must also be specified..
.TP
\fB\-p \fIpartition
specify a partition; required with the --update-config option, optional
with the --print-config option.
.TP
\fB\--print-vpd
print vital product data (VPD) collected by the system in NVRAM.
This data may also be viewed with the lscfg(1) command directly from the
devices.
.TP
\fB\--print-all-vpd
print viral product data (VPD) collected by the system in NVRAM including
vendor specific data.
.TP
\fB\--print-err-log
print the checkstop error log generated by the service processor whenever
the system checkstops.
.TP
\fB\--print-event-scan
print the event scan log stored in NVRAM.
.TP
\fB\--partitions
print the contents of all the NVRAM partition headers.
.TP
\fB\--nvram-file \fIpath
read nvram data from a given file rather than /dev/nvram.  To capture NVRAM
for later use, simply copy /dev/nvram into a file.
.TP
\fB\--verbose \fR(\fB-v\fR)
be more verbose.
.TP
\fB\--help
print usage information including other low level options useful for
debugging nvram.
.TP
\fB\--ascii \fIname
print partition contents as ASCII text
.TP
\fB\--dump \fIname
raw dump of partition (use --partitions to see names)
.TP
\fB\--nvram-size
specify size of nvram data, must in multiples of 16 Bytes (for repair 
operations)
.TP
\fB\--unzip \fIname
decompress and print compressed data from partition
.TP
\fB\--zero | 0 \fR
terminate config pairs with a NULL character
.SH FILES
/dev/nvram
.SH AUTHOR
Writtem by Todd Inglett, Nathan Fontenot, and Michael Strosaker
