.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines
.\" Michael Strosaker <strosake@us.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH SERV_CONFIG 8 "May 2004" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
serv_config \- view and configure system service policies and settings on IBM ppc64 platforms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/serv_config \fR[\fB-b\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-m\fR]
\fB/usr/sbin/serv_config -l
\fB/usr/sbin/serv_config -z \fIfilename
\fB/usr/sbin/serv_config -e \fIvar\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
\fB/usr/sbin/serv_config \fR[\fB--surveillance\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]]
                      \fR[\fB--reboot-policy\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]]
                      \fR[\fB--ring-indicate\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]]
                      \fR[\fB--remote-maint\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]]
                      \fR[\fB--force\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.I serv_config
utility is used to view and manipulate various system service policies and
settings on PAPR-compliant PowerPC-64 machines, such as IBM pSeries, iSeries,
System p or System i machines.
.P
.I serv_config
can be run in one of two modes; interactive mode, in which the user will be
prompted for the value of each variable in the specified category, or macro
mode, in which the string provided on the command line will be parsed for the
values of the variables in the category.  Macro mode is for expert use only;
most users should be utilizing the interactive options (\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-b\fR,
\fB\-r\fR, and \fB\-m\fR).
.P
.B NOTE:
It is recommended that the current service settings are backed up with the
\fB\-l\fR option before the settings are manipulated with this utility.
Should a value be mistakenly updated to an incorrect value, all the settings
can be restored to the backed up values with the \fB\-z\fR option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
List all of the current service settings.  If this output is stored to a file,
these settings can be later restored with the \fB\-z\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-e \fIvar\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
If only \fIvar\fR is specified, the value of the specified service
setting is displayed; if a \fIvalue\fR is also specified, the value
of the specified service setting is updated to the specified value.
.TP
.B \-s
Interactively update the Surveillance settings.
.TP
.B \-b
Interactively update the Reboot policies.
.TP
.B \-r
Interactively update the Remote Power-On settings (either Ring Indicate
Power-On or Wake On LAN).
.TP
.B \-m
Interactively update the Remote Maintenance settings.
.TP
.B \-z \fIfilename
Restore the service settings that were previously stored to \fIfilename\fR
(using the \fB\-a\fR option).

.SH ADVANCED OPTIONS
.P
The following options are for expert users only.  They are intended to be
used by scripts and utilities which have been designed to automate the
retrieval/manipulation of service settings.
.TP
\fB\-\-surveillance\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]
View or update the Surveillance settings in macro mode.
If the \fIsettings\fR argument is not specified, all of the Surveillance
variables are printed along with their corresponding values.  If the
\fIsettings\fR argument is specified, the Surveillance settings are updated
to the specified values.  The \fIsettings\fR argument should be in the
following format:
.nf
\fIsp-sen\fB,\fIsp-sti\fB,\fIsp-del\fB,\fIimmediate
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-reboot\-policy\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]
View or update the Reboot policies in macro mode.
If the \fIsettings\fR argument is not specified, all of the Reboot policy
variables are printed along with their corresponding values.  If the
\fIsettings\fR argument is specified, the Reboot policies are updated
to the specified values.  The \fIsettings\fR argument should be in the
following format on legacy systems:
.nf
\fIsp-bootrt-limit\fB,\fIsp-os-plt-reboot\fB,\fIsp-plt-reboot\fB,
\fIsp-dookc\fB,\fIsp-ac-reboot\fR
On recent systems, the following format is used:
\fIpartition_auto_restart\fB,\fIplatform_auto_power_restart
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-remote\-pon\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]
View or update the Remote Power-On settings in macro mode.
If the \fIsettings\fR argument is not specified, all of the Remote
Power-On variables are printed along with their corresponding values.  If the
\fIsettings\fR argument is specified, the Remote Power-On settings are
updated to the specified values.  The \fIsettings\fR argument should be in the
following format for systems with support for Ring Indicate Power-On:
.nf
\fIsp-ri-pon\fB,\fIsp-rb4-pon\fR
On systems with support for Wake On LAN, the format
is as follows:
\fIsp-remote-pon
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-remote\-maint\fR[\fB=\fIsettings\fR]
View or update the Remote Maintenance settings in macro mode.
If the \fIsettings\fR argument is not specified, all of the Remote Maintenance
variables are printed along with their corresponding values.  If the
\fIsettings\fR argument is specified, the Remote Maintenance settings are
updated to the specified values.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Do not prompt for confirmation before modifying system settings; only valid
in macro mode (ignored in interactive mode).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bootlist (8),
.BR lscfg (8),
.BR nvram (8)
