.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines
.\" Michael Strosaker <strosake@us.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH SET_POWERON_TIME 8 "May 2004" Linux "Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
set_poweron_time \- set a time in the future for the system to be powered on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/set_poweron_time \fR[\fB-s\fR] \fB-t \fIabsolute_time
\fB/usr/sbin/set_poweron_time \fR[\fB-s\fR] \fB-d \fIdelta_time
.B /usr/sbin/set_poweron_time -m
.B /usr/sbin/set_poweron_time -h
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The
.I set_poweron_time 
utility is used to set a time in the future to power on the system.  The utility uses firmware interfaces provided by IBM ppc64 systems to provide this functionality. 
.P
When used with the 
.B -t
option, the utility will configure the system to power-on at the specified date and time.  This is usefule for specifying that the sysetm should be restarted at 6 AM on Monday morning, for example.

When used with the
.B -d
option, the utility will treat the specified time as a delta from the present.  This is useful for specifying that the system should be restarted in 2 days, for example.

Times for the
.B -t
and
.B -d
options should be specified in the following format:
.P
\fBY\fR<year>\fBM\fR<month>\fBD\fR<day>\fBh\fR<hour>\fBm\fR<minute>\fBs\fR<second>
.P
The month, if specified, should be in the range of 1-12.
The day, if specified, should be in the range of 1-31.
The hour, if specified, should be in the range of 0-23.
The minute and second, if specified, should be in the range of 0-59.
.TP
For the -t option:
Year, month, and day default to the current date if not specified.
Hour, minute, and second default to 0 if not specified.
.TP
For the -d option:
Year, month, day, hour, minute, and second default to 0 if not specified.

.P
When used with the 
.B -m 
option, the utility will print the maximum amount of time in the future that the power-on time can be set (in days).  This option cannot be used with any others.

When used with the 
.B -s 
option, the utility will shut down the system with 
.B shutdown -h now
after the power-on time has been set. If the utility is unable to set the power-on time for any reason, the system will not be shut down.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t \fIabsolute_time
specify the power-on time
.TP
\fB\-d \fIdelta_time
specify the power-on time as a delta from the current time
.TP
.B \-m
print the maximum amount of time in the future that the power-on time can be set (in days)
.TP
.B \-s
shut down the system after setting the power-on time.  The system will not be shut down if the power-on time cannot be set for any reason.
.TP
.B \-h
print a usage message with examples

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
Shut down the system and schedule it to restart in 12 hours
and 10 minutes:

    set_poweron_time -d h12m10 -s

Schedule the system to restart at noon on June 15th of this
year:

    set_poweron_time -t M6D15h12
.fi

