.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines
.\" Michael Strosaker <strosake@us.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH UESENSOR 8 "May 2004" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
uesensor \- view the state of system environmental sensors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/uesensor -l \fR| \fB -a
\fB/usr/sbin/uesensor -t \fItoken \fB-i \fIindex \fR[\fB-v\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fIuesensor\fR utility is used to view the state of environmental
sensors on PowerPC-64 machines.

.P
There are 4 types of system sensors that can be retrieved with
\fIuesensor\fR; each sensor has an identifying token:

.TP
.B 3
Thermal sensor
.TP
.B 9001
Fan speed sensor
.TP
.B 9002
Voltage sensor
.TP
.B 9004
Power supply sensor

.P
Each sensor is uniquely identified by a combination of token and
index number; index numbers start at 0 and are contiguous.  For example,
the second fan on the system would be identified by token number 9001
and index 1.

.P
The state of each sensor consists of a status and a measured value.
The status value is one of the following:

.TP
.B 9
Critical low
.TP
.B 10
Warning low
.TP
.B 11
Normal
.TP
.B 12
Warning high
.TP
.B 13
Critical high

.P
The measured value depends on the type of sensor.  Thermal sensors are
measured in degrees Celcius; fan speed is measured in revolutions per
minute; voltage is measured in millivolts; power supply measurements are
defined as follows:

.TP
.B 0
Not present
.TP
.B 1
Present and not operational
.TP
.B 2
Status unknown
.TP
.B 3
Present and operational

.P
Each sensor is also associated with a location code; this location code
may not be unique (for example, there may be multiple voltage sensors on
a planar).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
List all the sensors in human-readable format.
.TP
.B \-a
List all the sensors in a tabular, numerical format.  One line will be
printed for each sensor in the following format:
.nf
.I <token> <index> <status> <measured_value> <location_code>
.fi
.TP
\fB\-t \fItoken
Specify the token of a specific sensor to query.  Also requires the
\fB\-i\fR option to be specified.
.TP
\fB\-i \fIindex
Specify the index of a specific sensor to query.  Also requires the
\fB\-t\fR option to be specified.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the measured value rather than the sensor status, which is the
default value printed.  Requires both the \fB\-t\fR and \fB-i\fR options
to be specified.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR usysident (8),
.BR usysattn (8)
