.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 International Business Machines
.\" Michael Strosaker <strosake@us.ibm.com>
.\"
.TH USYSIDENT 8 "May 2004" Linux "Linux on Power Service Tools"
.SH NAME
usysident \- operate device identification indicators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/usysident \fR[\fB-l \fIlocation_code\fR]
                    [\fB-s normal\fR|\fBidentify\fR] [\fB-t\fR]
\fB/usr/sbin/usysident \fR[\fB-d \fIdev_name\fR]
                    [\fB-s normal\fR|\fBidentify\fR] [\fB-t\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fIusysident\fR utility is used to view and manipulate the indicators
(LEDs) that identify certain devices on PowerPC-64 machines.  These
identifiers are specified by location code; location codes can be retrieved
by running lscfg.

.P
When run without arguments, \fIusysident\fR will print a list of all of the
identification indicators on the system along with their current status (on
or off).  The \fB\-l\fR or \fB\-d\fR options can be used to specify a
particular indicator, by location code or logical device name respectively.
If \fB\-l\fR or \fB\-d\fR is the only argument, the status of that indicator
will be printed.  If the \fB\-s\fR argument is specified in addition, the
indicator may be turned on or off.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-l \fIlocation_code
Specify the location code of the indicator.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIdev_name
Specify the name of the device to be identified (e.g. eth0, sda).
.TP
\fB\-s \fR{\fBnormal\fR|\fBidentify\fR}
Must be used with the \fB\-l\fR or \fB\-d\fR option; \fB\-s normal\fR will
turn the indicator off, while \fB\-s identify\fR will turn the indicator on.
.TP
.B \-t
Truncate the location code if necessary.  If an indicator is not available at the specified location, this option will continuously trim the last clause off of the location code in an attempt to find an indicator near the device.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR usysattn (8),
.BR lscfg (8)
