.\" Copyright (c) 2005 International Business Machines.
.\" Common Public License Version 1.0 (see COPYRIGHT)
.\"
.\" Author(s)
.\"	Ryan S. Arnold <rsa@us.ibm.com>
.\"		Original version: January 14, 2005.
.\"
.Dd January 14, 2005
.Os LINUX
.Dt VSCSISADMIN 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm vscsisadmin
.Nd virtual SCSI server administration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Fl start
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus Fl target Ns = Ns Ar target
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl warn
.Pp
.Nm Fl status
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl warn
.Pp
.Nm Fl stop
.Op Fl path Ns = Ns Ar path
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus
.Op Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus Fl target Ns = Ns Ar target
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl noisy
.Op Fl warn
.Pp
.Nm Fl help
.Pp
.Nm Fl version
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is the IBM virtual SCSI server
.Pq \fBibmvscsis\fR
administration utility.  This utility is responsible for configuring,
starting, stopping, and gathering status on the virtual SCSI server.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl help
Output the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility's help information, which gives a brief
synopsis of this manual page.
.It Fl noisy
This directive is optional.  Without a
.Sq Fl noisy
directive the vscsisadmin script is in \fBsilent\fR mode by default (except in
the case of errors, warnings and output requests).  The output verbosity of
the script is managed by stacking
.Sq Fl noisy
directives.  A single instance of
.Sq Fl noisy
indicates that the utility should output in \fBstatus\fR mode.  A
second instance of
.Sq Fl noisy
indicates that the utility should output in \fBverbose\fR mode.  Verbose mode
is generally used for script tracing and won't be used by a casual user unless
problems arise.
.It Fl start
Configure and start the virtual SCSI server based upon the adapter:bus:target
entries found in the configuration file (denoted in the \fBFILES\fR section of
this manual).  This directive will configure valid adapter:bus:target entries
regardless of whether they are to be active or inactive at startup.  If the
vscsis target is already active this command will configure and start the
remaining valid targets specified in the configuration file and leave the
already active targets alone.  For information on how to write a well formed
configuration file
.Xr ibmvscsis.conf 8
is provided as an accompanying man page.
.It Fl start Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter
This modified
.Sq Fl start
directive will read the config file and will only process those config file
entries that are defined under the specified adapter.  An example follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -start -adapter=30000005\fR
.Ed
.It Fl start Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus
This modified
.Sq Fl start
directive will read the config file and will only process those config file
entries that are defined under the specified adapter and bus.  An example
follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -start -adapter=30000005 -bus=0\fR
.Ed
.It Fl start Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus Fl target Ns = Ns Ar target
This modified
.Sq Fl start
directive will read the config file and will only process those config file
entries that are defined under the specified adapter, bus and target.  An example
follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -start -adapter=30000005 -bus=0 -target=2\fR
.Ed
.It Fl status
Output a table of status on the virtual SCSI server. This table pertains to
the activity found in the \fBibmvscsis\fR sysfs directory and not only to the
adapter:bus:target entries in the ibmvscsis configuration file.  Here is an
example output: \fB
.Pp
.Bd -literal
	ibmvscsis:30000008
	 *      bus0:target0:/dev/sdd6
	 *      bus0:target1:/dev/sdd7
	 *      bus1:target0:/dev/sdd8
	ibmvscsis:30000009
	        bus0:target1:/dev/loop0-->/var/vscsis/vdisk1
	ibmvscsis:3000000a
	ibmvscsis:3000000b
	 *      bus0:target1:/dev/loop1-->/var/vscsis/vdisk2
.Ed
.Pp
\fRIn the status output each vscsis adapter has a block of data.  Within this
block of data each target is preceded by the bus number it is on.  Following
the target information is the device path with which the target is associated.
A loop file, if there is one, may follow the device path.  Preceding every
entry may be an asterisk.  The presence of an asterisk indicates that the
target is currently active.  No asterisk indicates that the target is
configured but not active.
.Pp
Existent bus:target combinations that lack any device_path data are left out
of the status information because they aren't relevant.
.Pp
A single inclusion of the
.Sq Fl noisy
directive with the status directive will not change the output of this
utility.  A second
.Sq Fl noisy
inclusion will put the utility into verbose mode and may increase the amount
of output.
.It Fl stop
The general behavior of the stop directive is that the \fBvscsisadmin\fR
utility will walk the \fBibmvscsis\fR driver sysfs tree and silently
deactivate all targets, detach all loop back devices, and remove all targets
and buses from all adapters under the driver's care.
.Pp
There are extended options for a more selective stop operation.
.It Fl stop Fl path Ns = Ns Ar path
This is a robust stop operation which will determine whether to stop a single
target, all targets on an entire bus, or all targets on an entire adapter.  This
is signalled through the selection of a path to one of the three
(\fBvscsisadmin\fR doesn't care if the path contains a trailing '/').  Take
the following three examples:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -stop \\
	-path=/sys/bus/vio/drivers/ibmvscsis/30000005/bus0/target0

vscsisadmin -stop \\
	-path=/sys/bus/vio/drivers/ibmvscsis/30000005/bus0/

vscsisadmin -stop \\
	-path=/sys/bus/vio/drivers/ibmvscsis/30000005/\fR
.Ed
.Pp
Example one will cause \fBvscsisadmin\fR to deactivate a single target.
Example two will cause \fBvscsisadmin\fR to deactivate all targets on an
entire bus and remove all of the targets from the bus.  Example three will
cause \fVvscsisadmin\fR to deactivate all targets on all buses under the
adapter and it will remove all targets and all buses under the adapter.
.It Fl stop Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter
This operation takes an adapter number in hexadecimal.  It will terminate all
of the targets on all of the buses under the adapter.  It will also remove all
targets on all buses and remove all the buses under the adapter.  An example
follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -stop -adapter=30000005\fR
.Ed
.It Fl stop Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus
This operation takes an adapter number in hexadecimal and an integer bus
number.  It will deactivate all of the targets under the specified bus and will
remove the targets from the bus.  An example follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -stop -adapter=30000005 -bus=0\fR
.Ed
.It Fl stop Fl adapter Ns = Ns Ar adapter Fl bus Ns = Ns Ar bus Fl target Ns = Ns Ar target
This operation takes an adapter number in hexadecimal, an integer bus number,
and an integer target number.  It will only deactivate the target specified.
An example follows:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
\fBvscsisadmin -stop -adapter=30000005 -bus=0 -target=0\fR
.Ed
.It Fl version
Output the version number of the \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility.
.It Fl warn
Warning messages are suppressed even when \fBvscsisadmin\fR is in verbose
output mode unless the application was run with the
.Sq Fl warn
flag.  Warnings indicate that unexpected circumstances happened during
\fBvscsisadmin\fR operations.  Warning messages are not severe enough to
terminate the running operation.
.Pp
There are two scenarios when warnings are generated.  The first is when the
\fBvscsisadmin\fR utility reads the config file and reads an entry for an
expected adapter, bus, target, or target attributes that is not found in the
\fBibmvscsis\fR driver's sysfs directory tree.  This can be due to adapter
being removed from firmware without the removal of the adapter configuration
entry from the config file.  The third scenario is when target config entries
contain "none".  Such entries are ignored.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \fI/etc/ibmvscsis.conf\fR
This is the virtual SCSI server configuration file used by \fBvscsisadmin\fR
to configure and manage \fBibmvscsis\fR.  This configuration file has its own
man page which describes how to properly write a virtual SCSI server config.
.It \fI/etc/init.d/ibmvscsis.sh\fR
This is the virtual SCSI server start and stop automation init script.  This
application invokes vscsisadmin internally and presents a standard init script
interface.
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It \fBstart caveats\fR
It is \fBnot\fR advisable to manually create and activate targets without
adding corresponding config file entries.
.It \fBstop caveats\fR
Currently the virtual SCSI server doesn't support an interface for determining
if the partner vscsis adapter for each vscsis adapter is actually in use.
Therefore it can be \fBVERY\fR dangerous to stop a running vscsi server before
all partner partitions have been halted.  In the future this script will, by
default, not deactivate targets who are on actively connected adapters.  At
that time a
.Sq Fl force
directive can accompany a stop directive to force deactivate such targets.
.El
.Sh DEPENDENCIES
The \fBvscsisadmin\fR utility requires that the \fBibmvscsis\fR driver module
be installed on the system, or built-in when the application is invoked.
.Pp
This utility depends on the existence of the \fBsystool\fR application for
querying the /sys file system and gathering data about the \fBibmvscsis\fR
device driver.  Execution of \fBvscsisadmin\fR will be stopped immediately if
\fBsystool\fR is not present on the system.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ibmvscsis.sh 8 ,
.Xr ibmvscsis.conf 8
.Sh AUTHOR(S)
.An Ryan S. Arnold Aq rsa@us.ibm.com
